What is science? The word is usually used to mean one of the three things,
or a mixture of them. Science sometimes refers to a special method of finding
things out. Sometimes it means a (1)body of knowledge arising from
discoveries. Finally, it is used to represent all the new capabilities and
methods that emerge from those discoveries. This last domain is usually called
technology. But if you look at the science section of newspapers and magazines,
you will find that advances in theoretical research and their practical
application receive just about equal attention.
This is not surprising, for the most obvious characteristic of science is
its usefulness, the power it gives us to do things. One (2)dramatic example
is the Industrial Revolution, which would surely have been impossible without
the development of science. The human capacity to control disease, to produce
quantities of food adequate for the world's greatly expanded population, and
to achieve full production without resorting to slave labor reflects the
development of technological know-how.
Now this power to do things carries with it no instructions on how to use
it, either for good or for evil. Such is determined solely by how inventions
are used and by our own priorities. Here most of us understandably have (3)
ambivalent feelings.
On the one hand, we are pleased with improved production; on the other, we
worry about the effects of automation. We are happy with the development of
medicine but then worry about the birthrate and the fact that no one dies from
the diseases we have (4)eliminated. We rejoice that the microscope has
revealed the realm of the bacterium and the virus, but then we are beset with
fears that evil scientists will use their knowledge to create incurable
diseases. We are delighted about the great advances in transportation and
communications but then express concern about the loss of cultural diversity.
We eagerly take to the Internet and then fear the power of super computers to
(5)snoop on us. We look to nuclear power as an enduring source of energy and
yet greatly fear the risks inherent in its use.
